1. What is an ecosystem for businesses?

Ecosystems have three defining characteristics: sustainability, self-governance and evolution. In order to be called 
an ecosystem, a network must fulfill each of those criteria.  

An ecosystem is sustainable because it thrives without outside influence. Within an ecosystem, people and products
 balance their use and reuse of resources to perpetuate the ecosystem. For example, in ride-sharing apps, riders and 
 drivers are in a symbiotic relationship, and all participants are working towards reducing congestion and pollution. 

An ecosystem is self-governed because it does not have top-down control. In other words, there’s no major company or
 governmental body that regulates the ecosystem. Instead, the ecosystem governs itself through shared sets of formal 
 rules and informal norms, which themselves are subject to change due to competition and innovation.  

An ecosystem evolves because it has the flexibility to change over time through competition and experimentation. 



2. Which customers are part of the Salesforce ecosystem?

All customers are part of the Salesforce ecosystem, but naturally, as an ecosystem it is
larger than just Salesforce and its customers. It is also comprised of the marketplace (AppExchange), partners and developers. 



3. What value does the Salesforce ecosystem provide to Salesforce customers?

The Salesforce ecosystem nowadays is a lot wider than just its own platform. It includes all organizations that provide the
products and services that surround the Salesforce implementation. These products and services widen the ecosystem and 
surround the Salesforce implementations. They foster the growth of the partner network and ancillary products and services
 needed by customers as their implementations become more complex. Many of these organizations are a part of the Salesforce
  Partner Community. 

Salesforce has the largest partner ecosystem of any technology company in the world. Salesforce consultants and system 
integrators who are experts on the Salesforce platform, provide expertise, technical skills, and guidance for organizations
 who are looking to both use the platform to its fullest and better connect to their customers. Additionally, there are 
 thousands of independent software vendors (ISV’s) and developers who have built businesses by creating apps, to further
  extend the functionality of Salesforce, These apps are available on the AppExchange. 



4. What is a community for businesses?

Community is an integral part of businesses, and exists on many different levels. These can be visualised as an onion. At
 the core there is its internal community, then its customer community, its external community and finally its market community.
The names of various aspects of these in Salesforce are (again, starting at the core) : Employee Communities for internal, 
Customer Communities and Partner Communities for connecting with external partners.



5. Find out what you can do as a customer in the Salesforce community.

In the Salesforce community, a customer can interact with experts and developers about how to best integrate and adapt 
Salesforce to the maximum benefit of a company. Furthermore, customers can start up their own Salesforce community through 
Community Cloud, to interact with- and keep track of the specifics about their partners, customers, and employees. 



What is Idea Exchange in the Salesforce community?

The IdeaExchange is a home base for sharing ideas for product improvements or new features with the Trailblazer Community 
and Salesforce Product Managers. It’s where customers can shape Salesforce products and influence their roadmap.
Using the IdeaExchange, anyone can openly post and share an idea, allowing Salesforce product managers to source feedback
 from the community—the crowd. 

Since the IdeaExchange was created, product managers have been monitoring ideas to see which ones gain popularity and which 
ones naturally align with the strategic direction of Salesforce products. Apart from that, three times a year, IdeaExchange 
Prioritization occurs, which bridges the always-on idea posting and voting with, you guessed it, the product release process. 
Introduced in late 2018, IdeaExchange Prioritization is a process by which product managers review top ideas for their 
categories, identify ideas to put on the prioritization list, and then ask the community to indicate which ideas on the list
 are most important.


